the scientists at Japan's Primate
Research Institute the PRI we're a youmu
is based have devised intelligence tests
for chimps one test is for what's called
working memory the brain's ability to
temporarily store and use information
the numbers 1 to 9 are randomly
scattered across a touchscreen the chimp
looks at them for as long as is needed
to memorize the layout then as soon as
one is touched the other numbers are
hidden and must now be remembered we
volunteered Chris the director of this
program to demonstrate this test he's a
college graduate and a crossword addict
but how good is his working memory when
Chris reckons he has memorized the
layout he touches one when the others
are hidden he must try to recall two to
nine in ascending order it takes me ages
to remember where they're all placed and
then I think I've got it it's really
very very difficult in 30 attempts Chris
only once reached nine without making a
mistake soon as their blanked over it's
like my mind's been blanked over as well
when a you moose at the same test he
correctly remembered the numbers almost
90% of the time
hyemi gets it right almost every time
and I've got it right
once Chris fears he's let his species
down but even when the PRI played a
youmu against their best human students
who were given regular practice sessions
are you moose still beat all humans
other chimps at the PRI have also sat
the exams
among these Apes computer skills are as
normal as the ability to swing from the
trees though none of his rivals beat au
mu a few came close and average chip
results turned out to be higher than
among humans
so does that efficient working memory
mean chimps are cleverer than humans
we track down a scientist who studies
chips in the wild dr. Nick Newton Fisher
I think it's interesting the results
that suggest that chimps may have
particular cognitive abilities that are
different and maybe in some aspects
better than humans because chimpanzees
are not small primitive furry humans
they are a species that we share a
common ancestor with maybe 5 6 million
years ago but they've evolved along
their own individual paths that they've
better doing chimp things and we're
better at doing human things and
something some chimp things may not
simply be climbing up and down trees and
eating figs some of those chimp things
might be mental abilities as well that
chimps one humans nil